top five supplements for per menopause
and menopause women or really any woman
over a 40 I'm Dr Jen double boarded obgy
and an integrative Medicine your hormone
and metabolic health
expert so supplementation is something
that I do discuss with patients but
really it's meant to supplement right
and so if you have adequate nutrition
and you're getting these vitamins and
minerals through nutrition you don't
need to supplement but let's talk about
the ones I typically do suggest that
women are are on because it's harder to
get it through nutrition so number one
is fiber fiber you need to be getting 25
to 35 gram a day for good gut health for
good Hormone Health for multiple reasons
and that sometimes can be a little hard
for women to get you have to be very
focus on getting 25 to 35 grams in fact
I use the chronometer app to track how
much fiber I take an intake and I
typically get around 10 to 15 gam a day
so I use a fiber supplement there are a
lot of them on the market but trying to
aim for 25 to 35 gram a day is important
now one thing I will say with fiber is
if you are very low in fiber don't go
straight to 25 grams because you'll get
bloating and abdominal pain you need to
slowly move your way up to that goal of
25 two
Omega-3s Omega-3s are powerful they help
with lowering inflammation they help
with joint pain brain health moods I
mean there's so many amazing benefits of
Omega-3s and so if you get it through
diet great if you can't then be focusing
on a total of 2,000 milligram or 2 gam a
day you can certainly go up fact women
with joint pain will often go closer to
three grams a day and if you have mood
issues you can have a a higher
concentration of EPA than DHA which is
known to help with mood issues so
anxiety and depression three I focus a
lot on magnesium so magnesium is
involved in over 300 enzyme reactions in
the body and for P menopause women
especially sleep is such a hard thing
it's it's you know it's one of the first
signs of Pam menopause and so often
women need magnesium glycinate to help
them sleep and so magnesium glycinate
even combined with like lavender which
is what I use can often be very useful
for calming the brain down calming the
Mind down getting to sleep staying
asleep magnesium is actually used for a
lot of reactions to make
neurotransmitters so it's important that
you're getting adequate magnesium and a
lot of good data uh recently has shown
that 550 milligrams daily of magnesium
can help with brain health as well as
bone health so it's important to make
sure that we're getting enough magnesium
and number four I often will suggest to
patients to take B vitamins if they're
not getting that through nutrition so a
complex B so B1 B3 B5 B7 the whole the
whole gamut of B vitamins making sure
you're getting adequate B vitamins will
help with your moods but also with all
of your hormones um especially sex
hormones number five so the last one is
vitamin D so if you're vitamin D
deficient which most women are then
vitamin D is important to make sure you
get in a supplement form and you can
certainly focus on D3 with K2 for better
absorption I like my vitamin D levels to
be optimal between at least over 40 but
60 to 80 is kind of the the range I'm
going for so that may require that you
take a th000 IUS a day it could be 600
iuse it just depends on what your levels
are so you need to work closely with
your doctor to be able to get adequate
vitamin D levels the one thing I would
add and and not necessarily uh a top
five but something I use personally is
collagen um there are many many
different types of collagen in fact
there are usually products that are
specifically for hair skin nails and
then other products that are for bone um
I actually take a product as a
combination of both because I I think
that it does help me overall with my
skin health and I'm trying to improve my
muscle mass and my bones because I did
have evidence of osteopenia this year so
collagen while it's not in my top five
is kind of very close right behind it
and I do often suggest to women to get
collagen and this again is always
supplementation is always a matter
whether or not you get it through your
diet if you get these things through
your diet you don't need to supplement
necessarily okay all right if you have
any questions about that then send me
information in the comments and don't
forget to like And subscribe to this
channel thanks
[Music]
is